so this time I'm talking about models
with latent random variables so in the
in the reading um there was a discussion
of the variational auto encoder it was a
tutorial to the variational auto encoder
I hope that the tutorial was not too
difficult
the original variational auto encoder
paper is extremely difficult so this
this tutorial is actually pretty
accessible so hopefully people could
figure it out um I'm going to give I'm
going to run through the content of the
tutorial and I'd like people to ask any
additional questions at the beginning
part that I'm going to talk about some
stuff about natural hand or handling
natural language with latent variables
for the latter half of this thing but
just to give a very quick overview of
kind of like a typology of our different
models and different variables and stuff
I think everybody most people in here
know this anyway but a discriminative
model is a model where we calculate the
probability of the output given the
input P of Y given X the generative
model is a model where we calculate the
probability of the variable X like we
were talking about or we can calculate
the joint probability of P X and y in
uses for some sort of inference so quick
quiz which of the following models are
discriminative versus generative biology
I'm part of speech tagger is
discriminative a globally normalized CRF
part of speech tagger is discriminative
and a language model is generative yes
so then types of variables this there's
a lot of terminology that kind of gets
mixed up here for the purpose of this
for the purpose of this time here I'm
going to make two distinctions these
distinctions aren't super clear in the
literature and people call a different
things different names but what I'm
going to say is observed versus latent
variables so observed variables are
something that we can see from our data
so in our training data are our input in
our output our observed variables and a
latent variable is a variable that we
assume exists but we aren't given the
value in the training data
I'll explain in a second why this can be
confusing this terminology can be a
little bit confusing but there's also
the distinction between deterministic
versus random variables and this is very
important to understand this particular
class but a deterministic variable is a
variable that's calculated directly from
the input or from some something given a
deterministic function well a random or
stochastic variable is a variable that
obeys a probability distribution and
according to that probability may take
one of several values so do people know
do people know Schrodinger's cats so
shorteners cat is the OEE idea where the
cat is either dead or alive but you
don't really know until you observe it
so that's a that's a stochastic variable
so going back to MLP
what types of variables are are these so
let's say we have an attentional
sequence to sequence model using maximum
likelihood estimation with
teacher-teacher forcing given this are
the following variables observed or
latent variables and deterministic or or
random variables so the input word IDs f
are are they observed or late observed
and deterministic or random yeah
basically deterministic they're given
they're given to us the encoder hidden
states H are observed or
wadn't yeah in deterministic or random
did this one was significantly slower
but yes deterministic so there's no
probabilistic interpretation of the
decoder hidden states we put in our
input and we get the hidden States out
and there's no probability distribution
over these hidden states one thing
that's a little bit um one thing that's
a little bit confusing sorry I forget I
forgot to clarify this but often people
will only refer to random variables as
latent variables um and you can also
refer to like deterministic hidden
variables are referred to as hidden
variables but for the purpose here I'm
going to say salient variables um and
what about the attention values these
are observed or latent latent and
deterministic or random yes these are
also deterministic so this is actually a
little bit confusing because it values
kind of look like probabilities right
they're between 0 & 1 and they add up to
1 but they actually there's still just
completely deterministic variables
there's no kind of probability involved
in them despite the fact that they look
like a probability distribution and
finally the output word IDs II are these
observed or latent this is kind of a
trick question so a training time
they're observed right yeah test time
you could say their latent because we
don't know the values and what about
deterministic or random
good so Dean team searches one good is
one good thing it's even better to think
about randomly sampling outputs from
your models so you can randomly sample a
bunch of outputs from your model where
you randomly get a probability of 0.3 by
random lot for something with a
probability of 0.2 so anything where you
can randomly sample a value from your
model and and get a different one every
time is basically a random variable so
the outputs are our random variables
specifically a training time a test time
you're given them so you might call them
observed variables but yes so keeping
this kind of stuff in mind I think it's
worth I think now we can go on to the
main topic which is weight variable
models I'll start with kind of a
reiteration or I'm going to read say a
lot of the things that we're in the
reading but I'd like people to ask
questions that they had when doing the
reading if anything was not clear so um
first why why do we want latent random
variables um the idea is that we believe
that there are underlying latent factors
in speech that effect text or images or
latent factors that affect the text and
images in speech that we're observing so
for example what is what is the content
of the sentence is one thing who is the
writer or speaker what is their
sentiment what words are aligned to
others in a translation etc and the
important thing is that all of these
have a
correct answer to them but we don't know
what it is so there's no such thing as
so let let's say okay somebody made
these slides today so somebody made
these slides today and it was either me
or one of the TAS right you can probably
guess with a certain probability whether
it was me or the TAS but what it wasn't
was zero point or for typing these words
it wasn't zero point eight of me and
zero point one of Dan zero point five of
my X and zero point five zero point zero
five of Mattson 0.05 inspector it's not
a random interpolation between all of us
it's you know it was one of us but you
might not know who it was
so if you think about it you kind of
need to make a decision about which one
of the us it is and then you can kind of
guess that from looking at the slides
today but it's not just a random like
mishmash of all of us together like
attention tries to do for you and this
is true for a whole bunch of different
things a whole bunch of different things
here so a latent variable model we
haven't observed output X we assume that
a continuous we will assume that it's
continuous vector until the next section
and then we have a latent variable Z
generated from a Gaussian and we have a
function f / parametrized by theta that
maps from Z to X where this function is
usually a neural network so this is our
generative or this is our model
basically and this is the model where
based where we used in the variational
auto encoder I mean the reason why this
works is because um and this was also
one of the quiz questions the reason why
this works is because even if we
with an arbitrarily complicated neural
network we can map this into any other
function distribution right so so we
take our Z which is randomly distributed
according to the into the according to
the normal distribution and we run it
from a neural network and we can get any
arbitrary probability density function
with a few exceptions about it being
smooth it's because of that you know
having a latent variable be Gaussian is
is fine it's no problem
so is that clear was that clear yeah so
um okay so Z Z here is a latent variable
latent random variable and X is a
deterministic variable that follows from
Z so what is our loss function um we'd
like to maximize the corpus like log
likelihood so this is our our loss so
over the entire corpus we calculate the
log probability of all of the examples
and add them together and that gives us
our corpus likelihood and for a single
example the marginal likelihood is
integrating over this over this variable
Z but because so our how many people
here are kind of familiar with Bayesian
methods with conjugate distributions
people know about this very much well
that's actually not very many hands at
all I think I thought I was gonna have
more um so okay I'm sorry because I'm
old I'm gonna give a little bit of
background but before variational
auto-encoders in neural nets and stuff
there was an idea that if you take this
prior distribution and multiply it by
this posterior distribution and you can
get a distribution of the same shape
then you can then it's very easy to do
inference and integration and and stuff
like that so for example if PZ is a
Gaussian distribution in this and this
posterior distribution here is also
based on a Gaussian distribution if you
multiply them together you get another
Gaussian distribution or something like
that
so if you do that you can actually
integrate over this thing and calculate
things exactly so that's the idea behind
the conjugate prior and posterior
distribution but the problem is now um
while we're doing this PZ is a Gaussian
this is now a complicated neural network
and there's no way we can integrate over
this appropriately which means that we
have to resort to some sort of
approximation method and the
approximation method we always resort to
because it's very easy to do is simply
so we take a sample a set of samples
randomly distributed according to this
primer which happens to be a Gaussian
[Music]
normal and then we you need to divide so
the problem that the variational
autoencoder is trying to solve is that
straightforward sampling is inefficient
so if you think about it if the thing on
the left is our distribution and we have
our current data point here this is the
one that we want to talk about
maximizing the likelihood of there's
only a very small portion of this space
in z that actually gives it a decent
probability right so but
for the great majority of the samples
that we could draw from this
distribution Z basically we're going to
get almost no probability when we
calculate the probability of X so this
is going to be a bunch of wasted
sampling that isn't that isn't useful
for us so it was this clear to everyone
or are there any questions sir yeah so
the solution to this in the variational
auto encoder is an inference model so we
have another distribution that predicts
which latent point produced the data
point using an inference model that
looks like this and we acquires samples
from the inference model to do more
efficient trading so the basic idea is
given this point X given that we know we
want to optimize this point X we use the
inference model to predict which point
in the space see we are we are going to
be using to calculate are to calculate
um in the reason why this is called a
variational auto encoder is because it
includes with the inference model in the
decodes with the generative model that
we're using
so the encoding goes from right to left
on this thing and then the decoding goes
from left to right but in reality it's
not a it's not a encoder decoder it's
just a generative model but at training
time at trading time we're using
something that looks like an encoder in
order to make so there's a but
unfortunately using this inference model
leads to a disconnect between the
samples and the objective so we want to
optimize this expectation here the
expectation according to according to
the actual distribution over Z but
instead if we're sampling according to Q
we're actually approximating something
else we're approximating the
the distribution according to this
expectation according to this inference
model so you'll notice that the bottom
and the top things here are different
because they're integrating according to
different distributions um so how do we
resolve this disconnect um
the interesting thing about the VA II is
they came up with this very elegant
solution to basically convert this in a
way that makes it possible to calculate
efficiently so we start out with the
definition of the KL divergence between
these two distributions which is just
this and then we convert this equation
with a Bayes rule which basically gives
us something like this there was a thing
kind of a magical thing that said we
rearrange and negate everything but
suddenly we get a new a new distribution
where if you went through the math you
could see that what they're doing is
they're moving everything around so
actually the alignment between these
equations was a latent variable that I
had to infer from the text but I was
able to do that and then based on the
definition of KL divergence you can then
contract all of these things together so
this is on the slides but but basically
the point is that we can go from this
definition of KL divergence that we know
beforehand if we can come up with this
objective so that doesn't mean a whole
lot until you go to try to interpret
what this via objective is saying so
basically what this is saying is the
left side is more or less what we want
to optimize so this is the marginal
likelihood of our latent variable X this
is what we said we wanted to optimize in
the first place right this is our normal
loss function
then there's another term here which is
basically the accuracy of the inference
model it's the the KL divergence between
the inference model and the actual
probability of Z given X so
understandably we would like our
inference model to be accurate that's a
good thing if they have an accurate
inference model because it will make
training faster so this objective is is
basically optimizing that but the right
size the right side is something that we
can optimize so as I said before the
expectation
according to Q of the posterior this is
exactly the thing that I said we could
do by taking the inference model in
sampling according to the inference
model and then calculating the
probability the posterior probability so
this is this is exactly the thing that I
wrote here so that's what we can do by
sampling from the inference model and
and then the the second thing is the KL
divergence between the the inference
models prediction and the prior
probability P Z so if we think about it
the is basically the thing that we can
calculate efficiently the the posterior
likelihood that we can calculate
efficiently the second thing is a
penalty for one q diverges from the
priors so we have this thing that's kind
of pulling in two directions one
direction is towards maximizing the
likelihood and using the inference model
in an efficient way to maximize so
likelihood the thing on the right side
is a thing that's saying you don't want
your inference model to move too far
away from the prior so yeah did you have
a question
yeah yeah it's a it's not it's not the
marginal likelihood but you yeah
according to like Bayes rule this is
usually called the likelihood it is a
posterior probability of x given Z but
yeah we should I should call it the
likelihood that would make it easier oh
sure yeah so basically we have our we
have our probability P and the idea is
that there's some connection between the
weight variable Z and the variable X so
given the variable Z we are able to
predict x with a higher probability um
but this is only true for Z that
correspond to X in some way so if we
think about a if we think about a
function that's basically going from
this and kind of expanding it into a
circle then only things that only points
on the left that will appear in that
particular place on the right side or
that correspond to that particular place
on the right side will give any sort of
high probability according to this so if
we were just randomly sample weights
from most the points will have a
probability that's extremely close to
zero for this so if we just randomly
sampled almost all of our points we'll
have a probability of zero which means
we're just wasting time
so that means we really want to sample
we really want to get points to you that
will give a nonzero or probability
that's not an extremely question sir any
other questions
so yes it's not because you have two
conflicting terms basically you have the
P X term and you have the you have the
other term and in some cases actually
that will that that's that's actually a
good question but I I think the answer
is no I'm going to talk about a
tangentially related topic in a moment
and I actually haven't thought about the
answer to that question but I might
realize yes I'm talking but one very
important thing to think of here and I'm
going to talk about this in detail in a
moment is that we have two terms here
and these two terms are in conflict
basically you can't optimize both of
these ideally because one will pull in
one direction one will pull in the other
direction so you're finding a compromise
between the two
[Music]
so we're not just to be clear um we
could randomly sample from this Gaussian
distribution that's just as good our
difference model the inference model
also could say I just want a sample from
this distribution without doing any
tricky stuff depending on what our value
of s is and in fact it does that pretty
frequently so I'll explain about this in
I think that might answer your question
um okay so I'll move on to the next part
so are there are there any questions
okay um so the next part and this is
another really clever thing about the
the variational auto encoder that kind
of made it made it a very popular option
and the the clever thing here is
basically one of the bad things about
models with latent variables is you need
to do sampling and sampling basically
you cannot back prop propagate through a
sampling operation there are a few
operations in your neural network that
you cannot back propagate through
sampling is one of them and something
like RDX is another one because
basically their gradients the their
gradients are zero almost anywhere so
you you know you get no gradients as you
the this is the traditional way that you
would kind of implement your variation
which is where you use an encoder your
your inference model to predict the mean
and the variance according to according
to X you then sample from this
distribution where you calculate the
mean and variance according to it and
then you use that sampled value in the
decoder and calculate your value and
then the blue things are your objective
function but the problem is this red
thing is something that you can't bet
propagate through so basically you lose
all of your gradient signal from the
from your like reconstruction loss so
the the trick is a Reaper a Reaper a
motorisation Trek which is basically you
move the sampling into the input of the
neural network and the way you
simply by moving the simply you sample
from a 0 mean unit variance multivariate
Gaussian distribution then if you
multiply that by the covariance matrix
and you add the mean matrix you get
something that's distributed according
to according to the actual distribution
so let's see sorry that's the worst
Gaussian numbers now that was extremely
embarrassed here we go so let's say we
have something like this we are where
this is zero so we we sample according
to a brown Gaussian here then we we add
the meat which gives us around Gaussian
and then we multiply by the covariance
which gives us so basically this shows
that we don't need to do any random
sampling according to a distribution
that depends on the inputs which means
now we have this nice graph where we
have the same thing over here but we
have a from here which means we can do
that propagation through out of this so
this is kind of there's two beautiful
things in the variational auto encoder
one is this repr amateur ization trick
one is the fact that we can sample
according to the we can sample according
to the inference distribution to make it
fast and then by paying this KL
divergence penalty it can be basically
the correct objective so are there any
questions or comments
I think any distribution can you be
parameterize with a sufficiently large
and deep neural network current so not
not any but yeah so what what I mean
what I mean is basically anything where
you can sample from a distribution and
map it on to an on to another
distribution is a distribution that can
be reaper interest right so the
variational auto encoder itself is
something that's relying on the fact
that we can reaper ammeter eyes
distributions so you could think of a
you could think of a really crazy
variational auto encoder where instead
of multiplying by adding instead you had
another neural network that's on to
something so you can basically have a I
think arbitrarily complicated
arbitrarily complicated reaper a
motorisation function as long as you
have certain things like smoothness or
very weak constraints um
it's another question like which ones
can you do easily by like multiplying
and adding and stuff those might be once
that are conjugate distributions so that
was exactly the thing that I talked
about before so we're you know you do
some simple manipulation to it and you
move from your prior to your posterior
or something that that might there might
be a connection between conjugate
distributions in this but that's all
talk about that a little bit and the
answer is kind of yes
[Music]
I'll talk about one for discrete
variables in terms of there's other more
advanced methods for doing variational
auto-encoders that have more complicated
functions mapping between them I'm not
super familiar with them tune thing is
so you can ask her about the details but
um so yeah so I have an example here the
first example this is the NLP stuff that
I'm going to be talking the first NLP
stuff that I'm going to be talking about
this is actually a piece of work that
was done by Sam Bowman who just gave the
talk last Thursday or last Friday here
and somebody pointed out to me that I
should have done this class one week
earlier so he could have given a guest
lecture here but unfortunately I missed
the boat on that one but I'll try to
explain his work instead um so
generating from language models um
remember we can generate from a language
model any language model we have so
using ancestral sampling basically what
we do is we start out with a zero vector
zero hidden vector in our lsdm or we
input the start of sentence symbol into
our LST m and then we calculate the
conditional probability of the of the
next word and the conditional
probability based on the conditional
probability of the next word we randomly
sample a word and then we continue doing
this until we get the end of sentence
symbol um and we can also do this when
we want to generate something trans
conditioned on something like
translation or image captive captioning
and this was the whole the whole
[Music]
conditional generation class that I that
I talked much earlier in this semester
so we already have a generative model
text this is something to remember so
what are we going to do we're going to
make a generative model for text this is
going to be a different generative model
for text and it's going to have a couple
nice properties so the the VA e based
approach to generating text is basically
a conditional language model that
conditions on the latent variable z in
like it's like an encoder decoder model
but the latent representation is
awaiting variable and the inputs and
outputs are identical so what it looks
like is we have basically our sentence s
on both the input and output we have our
our inference model recurrent neural
network that reads in this sentence one
by one it then sorry this is actually
this is a little bit this is a little
bit misleading so what it predicts is it
doesn't actually predict the latency
directly but it predicts the mean and
the in the variance of the of the
distribution over the latency so instead
of from this mu and Sigma you can sample
a latent vector that represents this the
sentence and so it's actually a quite
straightforward application of the
variational auto encoder idea to text
only things that our encoder and decoder
are both RNAs that's really the only
that's really the only difficulty about
this um so there was a question just now
about the interpret ability of models
here
so one of the motivations behind this
model we as you know we already have
encoder/decoder models we already have
generative language models why would we
want to do why would we want to go out
of our way to do this variational
auto-encoder model so one motivation is
it allows for potentially a more
consistent latent space so you can find
this from two good examples and the in
the paper so in the standard encoder
decoder um if you sorry this is kind of
small but if you look at this the thing
on the top is I went to the store to buy
some groceries and then horses are my
favorite animal and what they did was
they basically took they had an encoder
decoder Bible and they took the vector
and then they interpolated it so they
gradually moved between the two vectors
I see some people squinting the slides
are also online if you want to look at
them on your computer and you can see
that these kind of contained the content
of the original sentence but they are
the intermediate sentences are not
actually sentences they're not well
formed if you go to the right um they
have I want to talk to you um she didn't
want to be with him um and you can see
the interpolation between the VA II
learned vectors is I want to talk to you
I want to be with you I don't want to be
with you in quotes I don't want to be
with you
matin quotes and she didn't want to be
with him so you can see the intermediate
vectors are more or the the sentences
generated from the intermediate vectors
are more consistent and there's another
example on the bottom um so why is this
any ideas
um so yes that's true but more do you
have a more specific yeah it's pretty
close I'm trying to think if that
actually explains what I'm about what my
personal idea about life this works is
but that that might be true that might
not be true so so the two comments where
the KL divergence forces us to be close
to the original distribution or there's
no non-diagonal correlation between the
two
my personal explanation basically is
from we're generating these vectors from
a distribution or these weight vectors
from the distribution yeah we're kind of
randomly generating them from this
distribution in other words our model
has to be able to handle vectors that
get generated anywhere in this space so
if the model has any places that's it
becomes a waste of the models capacity
and it will pay a penalty for this so
you would never see the model we'll get
a worse
because of that if you get to if these
sentences in here get a reasonable
probability according to the prior
distribution if it's not if it's not
using if it's generating wrong things
from there it will network on the other
hand there's no such there's no such
penalty so I think that's my
interpretation if somebody can prove
that's wrong or not wrong then there'd
be great but that that's my
interpretation um the second thing is
simply it might be more robust than
noise if you think about it more robust
to noise in the latent distribution if
you think about it we're adding a
noising term basically and because
there's some random noise this often
helps even in um so we have an example
of this it's a super simple modification
of the of the standard encoder decoder
model and Hector is going to talk about
so this piece of CO is taken from the
previous condition of LM Co so most of
the stuff are the same we read in data
training and testing or whatever let's
go to the actual calculate loss part one
thing we need to do is we are building
an RN to RN n and we have an latent
variables Ian's in between so for the
for the first iron n we first get its
output the source output now s param
said we need to get like two variables
from design then we need to get mu n we
need to get a sigma and all we need to
do here is we use the power of new
national networks we put it into MLP so
we define the MLP parameters here we use
just one one hidden a an LP so one W and
1v as a output layer so by putting the
source output into the MLP we can't get
the MU we like let's say this WV and B
and this a map you can give us mu and
another MLP you can automatically give
us the variants so the trick the
implementation here I'm using a lot
variants which seems to be the common
trick that people use because you don't
have to like explain your variable to
this Sigma you can say the MLP output
the lock Sigma because you don't know
what what a net what what MLP is doing
anyway so let's say it's outputting a
log Sigma and then we can compute a KL
divergent loss so for the ko part you
can see this you can find this formula
in the original via a paper appendix so
between two Gaussian and one of them is
zero center and oneness a meetin so we
just calculate this value which will be
the clear divergence between our model
generated new and actual sample 1 so
here you see we use the log of the Sigma
so it's log which I really use it here
we use the original cover measure so we
do exponential now there's a repairman
times they re parameter isn't Ripa which
computers II for us so that's pretty
simple by because we have 2 mu and lot
variants of that small circle down there
no we have we don't have that we have we
can sample one small Gaussian circle
down in the zero Center 0 and then we
add the MU and multiplied by the
variance here because when you see when
you see the actual formula you will have
a square root of that so here we
multiplied by the log variance by 0.5 so
that's the simple part about using a lot
variance you can skip like square root
but anyway you will get you would do the
exponential back anyways so it's your
it's your choice to use a lot variance
or the original one so now we get bad
this by multiplying that and then Plus
that meal so here we get a Z the last
part is easy because we can say the Z to
be the info for the next island here
with this I designed the Z to be exactly
that I mentioned matching the output I'm
there
there are also implementations that you
have to pass the Z to another NLP to
match the dimensions you don't want the
dimension of Z to be too high for some
reason but in this case I just using I
just designed this MLP to make the Z to
have exactly that dimension and the last
part and the rest of them will be easy
just put a Z inside there here and get a
very traditional TM for a target
well any any questions about this I
think if anything you could see that
this is actually really quite simple
despite the you know the the fact that
the math in the original paper in
particular is relatively intimidating
the procedure to run this is super
simple actually quite efficient so it's
it is good um so there's a couple of
things you need to be careful about
which is that um variational
autoencoders are not the easiest thing
to train
it's especially the case for text that
you need to be very careful um so one of
the reasons for this is of the two
components in the via objective the KL
divergence term is much easier to learn
so let's take a look at this um so for
this divergence we can just set the mean
and the variance to be exactly the same
as our prior in other words we can set Q
to be one and we get we get a zero KL
divergence for free so because of this
basically this KL divergence term is
trivial to learn so if you put this into
a into a standard neural network it can
learn to optimize the right side very
easily well on the other hand the left
side requires a good generative model
and as I'm sure you know from looking at
the class creating a good generative
model of language for example is not is
difficult people still research yeah
this is usually just set to a to a
Gaussian with zero mean and variance
yeah and the reason why we can always do
that is because we expect the we expect
the model P of X given C to be
large complicated neural network that
can simulated a function so what this
results in much of the time is that it
results in the model learning to rely
solely on the decoder and completely
ignore the latent variable so it
basically learns a good language model
for P of X but it doesn't even use Z at
all because it learns to basically
minimize the KL divergence on the right
side and then just learned the
generative model without without using
the UM
so one solution to this is called tail
divergence annealing so that basic idea
is we multiply the KL term by a constant
lambda starting at zero then we
gradually increase this as training goes
on and I said we gradually increase it
to one sometimes we actually gradually
increase it to a value that's less than
one although that doesn't give us the
true the Truvia objective as a result
the model can learn to use Z before
getting penalized and you can actually
see this in a in the graph in the four
using this for next generation so we
start out with the after when the KL
term weight of zero it learns to
basically learn an inference model that
gets a very very high kill divergence so
it learns something that's very very
different from the prior and then we
gradually introduce this and after we
introduce the KL divergence drops
drastically but it doesn't drop all the
way to zero because the the model the
generative model has already learned how
to use the latent variable so it's it
does a little bit better with the latent
variable than without the later so this
is one trick this is very important it
adds a couple hyper parameters to your
model but if you do this it tends to
work um another trick is to weaken the
decoder so the
[Music]
the KL divergence method before or the
KL divergence method that I talked about
before does tend to work but
theoretically it's still problematic so
basically this this paper up here what
it has shown is that if you can generate
things perfectly or very very well
without using Z the optimal strategy is
to kind of ignore Z and so in a way this
method here is kind of is kind of
relying on you to not optimize your
model properly in a way which is
possible because neural networks fall
into local minima so the the solution
another solution is to weaken the
decoder um that calculates P of X given
Z so that you have to use Z in order to
do a good job so um one example of how
you can do this is using word dropout so
what this means is instead of inputting
all the previous words that you instead
of inputting all the previous words that
you've already generated you drop some
of them and just set the input vector to
zero and by doing this you're making
your decoder weaker so it really has to
rely on the information that's encoded
in Z in order to do a good job of of
calculating the probability of the
outputs um another example of something
that has been done is to use a
convolutional decoder with limited
contexts so this is you can think of
this as instead of using a full RN n
which can basically remember all the
words that you've done previously you're
only relying on the past couple words
and if you're only relying on the past
couple words it'll be like a regular
Engram model it'll be much weaker than
your your nice lsdm language model so it
has to use the Z two to basically
remember the the content of the sentence
so this is another another trick that
has proven useful um any questions about
this okay so let me move on to the next
part this is actually a pretty
interesting part I'm not going to talk
about everything related to this in this
class because actually I'll be talking
about this over the next three classes
also but I'm going to talk about a few
tricks that um that are useful with
regards to handling discretely variables
so many variables are better treated as
discrete than continuous so obviously
the part of speech of a word the class
of a question speaker traits like gender
et Cie usually these can be put into one
discreet class without without having a
continuum between them so how do we
handle these so one way you can do this
which is not this is the equivalent of
basically taking the integral over your
entire latent space of Z latent
variables so we just enumerate over all
configurations of these discreet latent
variables and and to calculate something
so if the number of possible
configurations for Z is small we can
just sum over all of them so let's say
we had an example where we wanted to
create a generative document classifier
for example so we have a we have a
document classifier where we want to
classify a document into one of ten
topics if it's only one of ten topics we
could conceivably just enumerate all of
those topics and calculate the
probability based on all those topics
and that would be no problem at all this
will only work when the number of
configurations of Z is extremely small
it will obviously not work if the number
of configurations this exponential like
in structured prediction problems
another thing we can do like we always
do is is simply so we randomly say
a subset of the configurations of Z and
optimize with respect to the subset um
there's various flavors of how we can do
this so we talked about minimum risk
training for we talked about minimum
risk training before this is good for
encoder decoders there's also
reinforcement learning in the next class
the one of the problems with sampling as
always is that we cannot back propagate
through it and it results in very high
variance you would also have to come up
with an inference basically an inference
model for these these latent variables
which is a little bit more complicated
than the than the original case but it's
it's not yet it's not too complicated
um the the final thing that I would like
to talk about with respect to discrete
Lane variables in a little bit more
detail is um we can also do Reaper
ammeter ization tricks for distributions
over discreet latent variables which
allows us to basically do back
propagation through discreet latent
variables with a with a qualifier that
that I'll talk about in a second but the
idea is as follows so the way we
normally do
sampling in a categorical distribution
is we have this categorical sample
function which takes in which takes in
our probability distribution P of Z
given s and we randomly get an ID
according to this according to this
distribution where Z hat is is maybe a
one hot vector representing the ID that
we selected so you can do this in numpy
you can do like MP dot
simple was it or random choices I forget
the number
what's the done by friction please
choices okay no numpy that choices or
something so you can we know we can do
this but this function is not you cannot
back prop through it easily um there's a
luckily there's a Reaper a motorization
method that makes that's very similar to
the Reaper amateur ization method that
was used for it's very similar to the
Reaper a motorization method that was
used for the the regular ve with the
Gaussian variables and it looks like
this I actually might have I've made a
mistake in this slide and I'll explain
it in a second sorry I just realized
there's a mistake but um the the basic
idea is you take your log probability
and then you also take a random muril
random variables a vector of random
variables um calculated accordingly
according to the Gumbel distribution
which I'll explain in two seconds and
then you don't take the max you actually
take the arguments so the arc max is
will select the value with the highest
with that or select the element with
highest value and turn it into a one hot
vector so this is and then the Gumbel
distribution is is basically negative
log of the uniform it's the negative log
of the negative log of the uniform
distribution so don't ask me why this
happens to be true but the Gumbel are
Max and the categorical sample will give
you exactly the same result or they'll
give you exactly the same actually I
don't know how Gumbel came up with this
magical distribution like this
it these can be proven to be equivalent
um the problem here is I mentioned we're
doing categorical sample and this is
this we cannot back propagate through
we're also doing in arguments note that
I made the mistake on the slide and that
should be in our backs but we're still
doing an argument X in the Reaper a
motorised method and if you remember
here these are the two functions that I
said we could not back propagate through
so we still cannot back propagate
through the Reaper a motorised version
so yeah I made these slides too late
last night so I'll go back in there or
not last night but I made these slides
in a rush so I'll go back and fix that
but um one way that we can get around
this arguments is instead of taking the
Arg max what we do is we take a soft max
um so the basically it looks like this
so you know we take the variables here
and we exponentiate them by 1 divided by
a temperature so it might not be
immediately clear what this is doing but
basically as as the temperature
approaches 0 will approach the arc max
so this as we lower our temperature to 0
this will become equivalent to to just
simply and there's a really nice a
really nice figure in the paper that
demonstrates this do the double softmax
track with the temperature of 0.1 that
was almost exactly but as we gradually
[Music]
as we gradually adjust this to by
adjusting the temperature we get
something that becomes more and more
flat so the idea here is that we can
we can do something very similar to the
reaper amateur ization trick and still
back propagate through our models that
have these these discrete random
variables and we start out with a
relatively high temperature and we
gradually move that to a lower and lower
temperature to approach yeah so this
this also works um yeah I probably
should have put a slide on this so just
to repeat the comment there's a thing
called this straight through estimators
so the straight through estimator
basically what it does is during the
during the backward pass it makes it it
takes the gradients as if you didn't
take the Arg max right appropriate
summary so um this is another way and
the advantage of doing this is instead
of getting this you get a single
decision the single Arg max decision is
good because as I said you can't mix
your TAS and your instructor about who
wrote the slides so mixing this is
basically saying you can mix your
discrete decisions you can mix together
the TAS and take the average of the TAS
and get some super TA or some some
mediocre TA that's worse than all three
of them combined but the street through
estimator says on the forward pass will
do it will keep will choose one but on
the backward pass will back prop the
problem with that is it's not a it's not
a correct estimator and it's not
guaranteed to converge or they're not
guaranteed it's not an unbiased
estimator the the actual probability
distribution so I will though we're very
short on time so we'll go very quickly
through some application examples in NLP
I'll take questions at the end if
there's still a little time but I'll
just go quick so there were a couple
models a couple people who've done
models for documents this is very
similar to the models for sentences but
you do it but it will be a more
consistent space there's another one for
question answer selection why do we want
to treat these as late stochastic random
variables or instead as weight and
random variables instead of just vector
for documents maybe a more consistent
space for question answering more
regularization um there was another
paper that came out recently that was
kind of interesting which is it's a
latent variable model for text
generation on the interesting thing
about this is it actually combines this
with adversarial learning which I will
be talking about next Tuesday I guess
that allows you to basically create
latent variables that are more
controllable or more interpretable which
is this is another one that I buy us
that we talked about before
um this method has a combination of
weight and continuous and latent not
maybe binary but latent categorical
variables that can do some supervised or
supervised learning so if you want to
combine both in a generative model this
would be one paper that you could take a
look at another thing this one is
perhaps this is also quite interesting
you can have a latent variables that are
not latent continuous variables but
there are latent sequences of symbols so
the idea is basically we have something
that looks like this where we have an
encoder
[Music]
hey they're calling you the compressor
here but basically what it's doing is
it's predicting a sequence of latent
symbols and then we have a Reconstructor
which takes in these these latent
symbols and reconstructs so there's a
couple of a couple of methods for this
this particular method here that I cited
they use it for summarization so this is
kind of interesting
you can drop words the idea is you can
drop the less informative words in the
source and still have a good latent
representation um that allows you to
reconstruct the target and if those
symbols in the source are informative
then they're probably also a very good
summary um more interestingly I'm not
sure what to think about this work yet
so we'll we'll see how it happened what
happens in the next couple years but I
think a lot of people are interested in
this is there have been attempts to kind
of discover language so this particular
this particular work here you show in
the image and then you ask the Kim the
learner to basically output a sequence
of symbols that describe the image and
then it reconstructs or than it has to
choose which of the images is correct so
if you have three images of pizza for
example it has to learn symbols that
allow you to discriminate between which
of those three images of the original
representation was talking about um and
one of the I guess this was probably one
of the outstanding or best papers a TM
NLP but basically this this paper here
analyzes what happens when you learn
with these models and their conclusion
was that sure they may be able to learn
a sequence of weight and symbols but
this weight sequence of latent symbols
doesn't really look like look a whole
lot like language and you have to use a
lot of other tricks to kind of make it
look
something like we know we see in human
languages
regardless I think this is a pretty
pretty interesting direction that we
might find more more stuff in the future
and then a final one there's a number of
methods that incorporates kind of latent
variables in recurrent models I think a
lot of people will be very interested in
in recurrent models because they're good
for language and this is one reference
to this that basically predicts the
latent variable based on the state of a
recurrent neural network I think there's
a lot of other ones after this so you
can look up the the additional
references but this is another thing
that you might okay um that's all for
today are there any questions or
comments or anything okay if not we'll
finish off thanks a lot